professor Marta Monza is a research
biologist
at Zurich University she was Tim's first
PhD student on the project
[Music]
she set about investigating meerkat
communication with a series of ingenious
experiments props are set up before the
meerkats emerge from their sleeping
burrows today we will try to do a
presentation of a chapter that's having
read authority of the meerkats here in
the Kalahari and as it approaches
everybody will probably become exciting
and hopefully we will hear the different
alarm calls okay maybe you can pull
slowly
live predators would be difficult to use
so instead Marta chose the next best
thing
[Music]
she recorded their alarm calls and
discovered the male cats have developed
a series of call types a kind of
language to warn the others of how close
a predator is and what type it is Kasich
and Ben - in fasting as the jackal gets
closer the meerkats identify the ground
predator and prepare for an emergency
Mata spent several months presenting
various predators to see if the calls
were different
she even launched a jackal into the air
to see if meerkat calls distinguish
between ground and aerial predators
the results of that experiment were
inconclusive but other revelations to
date have been remarkable such a
sophisticated alarm called the system as
in the markets has hardly been described
in any other species meerkats have
evolved a complex warning system the
sounds they make to warn of aerial or
terrestrial predators change as the
threat grows closer so first moving
animal caller now we already have the
law article and how it changes into the
high urgency and finally they start
about Marta and her colleagues have
discovered that the meerkats are
speaking with a complex repertoire of
calls the messages they send each other
are distinct and the meaning is very
clear play them your choice of recording
and you can predict exactly how they
will react this sound means bird of prey
approaching fast
you